# Studying SARS-CoV-2 infection on Intestinal Organoids

We here apply Saezlab tools on Intestinal organoids treated with Sars-CoV-2 for 
60 hours. The original transcriptomic dataset is coming from the following p
ublication: [Lamers et al. 2020](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6499/50).

To date, this repository contains two scripts: 

**1.- 01_classical_pipeline**: In this script we apply the classical analysis
of gene expression data using Saezlab tools. We first compute pathway activity
using *Progeny*. Then, we compute Transcriptio factor activity using *Dorothea*
coupled with *Viper*. These results along with a prior knowledge network 
extracted from OmniPath and perturbations (Viral-host protein interactions) are 
the input for *CARNIVAL*. *CARNIVAL* tries to infer the most likely signaling 
network connecting the upstream perturbations with the downstream transcription 
factors, given the contrains imposed by the abovementioned inputs. 

To check the results visit: 
<https://github.com/saezlab/Covid_IntestinalOrganoids/blob/master/01_classical_pipeline.md>

One can click on CARNIVAL output figures (networks) to get a larger image and
download it for further exploration.


**2.- 02_analysis_carnival_results**: This script contains some analysis of 
different networks generated by *CARNIVAL* for different situations: 

- Considering that the viral proteins inhibitit the human proteins with whom 
their interact. 
- Considering that the viral proteins activates the human proteins with whom 
their interact. 
- Considering that we do not know the effect of the perturbation (inhibition or
activation) of the viral proteins on the human proteins. In this situation, 
*CARNIIVAL* will infer the most likely effect given the input. 

To check the results, we recommend to download the hmtl file because it contains
interactive plots with the enrichmets of the different clusters. These plots 
cannot be visualize in the Github markdown (.md file):
<https://github.com/saezlab/Covid_IntestinalOrganoids/blob/master/02_analysis_carnival_results.html>

In addition, we strongly suggest to check and download the following file: 
<https://github.com/saezlab/Covid_IntestinalOrganoids/blob/master/Carnival_Results/carnival_results_top50tf_pleitropic_minsize15_undefinedEffectNetwork_Clusters.pdf>

It contains the networks generated by *CARNIVAL* when the effect (activation or
inhibition) of the viral proteins on their host interactions is unknown. It 
also groups the proteins by the identified clusters and describes the most 
significant biological funcitons or pathways associated to each cluster.  
